>> Kyle Simpson: Our next operation
that we wanna look at, our next list or
data structure operation is called filter.
Now filter is often referred to as, or
thought of as an exclusionary activity.
So let time explain it or
illustrate it in this way.
How many of you have ever made spaghetti?
Anybody?
In my house,
the only meal that I cook
in my house is spaghetti.
I can cook steaks and
other meat on the griller, but
the only meal that I make is spaghetti.
My wife does all the other cooking and
she's great at it.
But I like to make spaghetti, and
I enjoy the process for some reason.
And so in spaghetti,
generally you have a big pot of boiling
water with your spaghetti noodles in it.
And at some point when the noodles are
cooked, you have to pour out the water and
keep the noodles, right?
So what do you do, you take a strainer,
you take a filter.
You hold it over the sink,
you pour everything in.
And the water goes through, but the
noodles are caught in the strainer, okay?
Now, if I were to describe that process
and ask you, would you be more naturally,
or would you be more normally inclined to
describe that as filtering out the water,
or filtering in the noodles?
>> Kyle Simpson: And I don't know
what your particular answer is, but
most of the time, I hear people say,
I would call it a filter out.
I'm excluding the water, and
the noodles are what's left over, right?
I'm not including the noodles in my set,
right?
So we generally think of filtering
as an exclusionary activity.
And in fact, almost every place that
you can think of metaphorically,
or in the English language
when we use the word filter,
we think about it in terms
of filtering something out.
Which is exactly why as programmers,
we decided to actually implement
Filter as an inclusion operation,
just to mess with people.
Just to make it reverse so
that everybody gets confused.
Because in Filter, as it applies to
programming, it's actually a filter in.
And by that I mean when
you tell it whether or
not you wanna keep something You return
True if you want to keep it, and
you return False if you
don't want to keep it.
So the true semantics sort of
implies that I'm filtering it in.
If I went to the grocery store and
there was big old pile of apples and
bananas they were all mixed together,
and all I wanted was the apples.
And I had to sift through every single
fruit pulling out all the apples into my
basket and leaving all the bananas.
Would you describe that as filtering in
the apples or filtering out the bananas?
Most people would say, I'm filtering out
the bananas, I only want the apples.
If I had a list of numbers; 1, 2, 3, 4, 5,
and I ended up with a list of numbers 1,
3, 5, that is the odd numbers.
Would you say that I filtered in
the odds or did I filter out the evens?
The problem is that we use this filter
word when in English we mean filter out,
but in implementation, we mean filter in.
And I don't know if any of you
all have ever had this, but
I've had a bunch of bugs in
my programs over the years.
What I was thinking filter out and
it was actually filter in, and my,
essentially my Boolean logic was worse.
So, I have taken to my own practice,
I never use the method
named filter ever again.
I don;t use filter,
I either call it filter in or filter out.
Because I don't want to be
any confusion in the program.
What am I doing at this point?
Am I filtering in things or
am I filtering out things?
I really wish we could just abolish
the word filter because there's this
baggage here.
So we're gonna build a filter in,
because it's gonna work exactly like
the filter that's on the array prototype.
A filter in method,
which takes a function,
remember up there I
called that a predicate?
Remember earlier in the course,
rather that I called it a predicate
when a function returns a Boolean.
If it returns a true false based upon
some value input it's called a predicate.
So the way the filter works is it
loops through the list of values and
it calls the predicate.
And if the predicate returns true, it
includes it in the new list otherwise it
just ignores it and
then we end up with a new list.
So what's an example of us filtering?
Well if I had a list of session objects,
and
I wanted to figure out if any of those,
I mean sorry,
a list of user objects and figure out
which of those users are logged in.
Meaning which of those have
a session ID attached to them.
Then I can use a filter in, and
the filter in is logged in the function
the predicate up at the top It
returns True if there is a session
property that's non on the object.
So now I'm gonna end up with the list of
users that have a session object attached
versus the ones that don't have
a session object attached.
>> Kyle Simpson: That's filtering in.
And we can do the exact same thing with
the built-in filter method on the array
prototype.
It does the same thing, it takes
a predicate function, it returns a new
array with the values included for
which the predicate returns True.
>> Kyle Simpson: So, the pattern matching
for how to decide is filter the operation
that I want to do,
is when I have some collection of value,
some data structure like an array or
an object.
And I want to produce the same kind
of data structure, but I want some of
the values to be included and potentially
some of the values to be excluded.
>> Kyle Simpson: Whether you think
about that as a filter in or
filter out is up to you.
Hopefully your method
names are unambiguous so
you're not gonna create bugs in your code.
But the idea is I want to start
with one collection of values and
end up with another collection of values.
The values don't get changed at all,
that's what map does.
So we're not picking new values here.
We're just selecting values
based upon some predicate check.